# Cyberleague

Cyberleague is a platform for devs to write bots to play games against other bots.

Components:

- API - main api supporting the web app and CLI
- Web App - displays bots and results
- Coordinator - job to run games
- CLI - create bots locally, build, test, deploy
- Evaluator - server that runs bots in sandboxed environments

## Games

Games are defined in Clojure:

  - in a data map, including:
     - name, slug, description, rules documentation
     - specs for moves, state
  - in a protocol, including various functions, including:
     - valid-move?, next-state, game-over?, winner

For more details, see ADDING_GAMES_GUIDE.md


## Bots

- all bots receive single input as JSON (or something similar) and must return a move as JSON
- the specs for input and output are different for each game

- devs may write their bots in any language that is supported
- all bots result in a single artifact file (a zip when necessary)


- language specifics:
  - clojure
    - input/output is EDN instead


## Envs

- every bot must specify an "env", which dictates how it is invoked on the server
- some languages may have multiple related envs (clojure: java-uberjar, babashka)

- see `./cl list envs" for an up-to-date list of languages and envs

- env specifics:
    - clojure
        - actually just a java environment, expects an uberjar
        - deps: java
        - expects: bot.jar


## Web API

HTTP API that powers the Web APP and CLI.

Currently, optimized for TADA CLJ RPC (ie. not a REST API).

endpoints (currently, just documenting those relevant to game running)

```
POST /bot/upload
    params:
      env: "clojure"
      bot-id: (uuid)
      artifact: (file)
    header:
      auth-token

  checks:
     limits on artifact size
     auth->user-id
       user exists
       bot exists
       user owns bot

  stores the artifact
    via EVALUATOR/upload
    and in db:
      artifact/id: uuid
      artifact/digest: sha256
      artifact/at: inst
      artifact/bot: ref->bot-id


  performs a basic test and reports errors
    via EVALUATOR/run


POST /bot/test
  params:
      bot-id: (uuid)
  header:
    auth-token

  checks:
    auth->user-id
      user exists
      bot exists
      user owns bot
    rate limit (to prevent CPU abuse)

  pull up the related bot (& game & dummy opponent)
  run game
      via EVALUATOR/run


POST /bot/release
   mark which one is live
    bot/live-artifact: ref->artifact-id
```


## Orchestrator

  internal job within web app process

  runs games

  every X ms
    selects a game
      TODO how
    chooses bots
      TODO how
    runs game loop, maintaining state
    calls out to EVALUATOR/run many times




## Web App

UI showing games, users, bots, match results.

ClojureScript + Reagent + Tailwind


## Evaluator

- abstract code evaluator, doesn't know anything about games

- minimal environment generated by nix, for running just the supported languages

- libkrun used as the vm for sandboxing

- see `./cl list envs` for an up-to-date list of languages and envs

- http server with minimal interface:

```
POST /upload
    params
      env: "clojure"
      artifact: (file)
    header:
      admin-auth-token

    stores the artifact
    returns the digest

POST /run
  params:
    artifact-digest: (uuid)
    input: (json)
  header:
    admin-auth-token

  check:
    token

  runs bot with input passed in
  inside a libkrun + nix vm
  returns output
```


## VM

To run arbitrary code safely, we leverage Firecracker microVMs.

To reduce time-to-eval, we make use of "snapshotting". To evaluate a binary after a snapshot is made, we include a relay program in the VM, that receives binaries over vsock.


### VM Generation (see build.sh)

Firecracker needs a root-fs ext4 image and a kernel image.

  - root-fs is generated by nix, from cyberleague.nix
  - kernel-image is pulled from the Firecracker CI

The Relay program is injected into the VM via a secondary "sidecar" drive (putting it on its own drive allows us to iterate without doing a full root-fs rebuild).

### Relay

The relay is a program that runs inside of the firecracker VM, which executes binaries based on instructions from the host.

- host sends CBOR-encoded message over socket
- a message contains:
  - artifact (binary)
  - stdin (binary)
  - args (array of strings)
  - command (string, with $ARTIFACT var available)
- guest listens over vsock
- guest executes
- guest returns a CBOR-encoded message, containing:
  - exit (integer)
  - stdout (string)
  - stderr (string)


